local to external db migration guide (#373)
janus-idp/operator: docs/db_merge.md

## Move Backstage databases to external DB server

By default, Backstage hosts data for each plugin, so there are usually several databases, depending on the number of plugins, those databases usually prefixed with "backstage_plugin_".

````
postgres=> \l
List of databases
Name                        |  Owner   | Encoding | Locale Provider |   Collate   |    Ctype    |   
----------------------------+----------+----------+-----------------+-------------+-------------+
backstage_plugin_app        | postgres | UTF8     | libc            | en_US.UTF-8 | en_US.UTF-8 | 
backstage_plugin_auth       | postgres | UTF8     | libc            | en_US.UTF-8 | en_US.UTF-8 |
backstage_plugin_catalog    | postgres | UTF8     | libc            | en_US.UTF-8 | en_US.UTF-8 |
backstage_plugin_permission | postgres | UTF8     | libc            | en_US.UTF-8 | en_US.UTF-8 |
backstage_plugin_scaffolder | postgres | UTF8     | libc            | en_US.UTF-8 | en_US.UTF-8 |
backstage_plugin_search     | postgres | UTF8     | libc            | en_US.UTF-8 | en_US.UTF-8 |
postgres                    | postgres | UTF8     | libc            | en_US.UTF-8 | en_US.UTF-8 |
````

> To move the data from working Backstage instance hosted on a local PostgreSQL server to a production-ready PostgreSQL service (such as AWS RDB or Azure Database), you can use directly PostgreSQL utilities such as pg-dump with pgsql or pgAdmin and move the data from each database one-by-one.

Reviewer: Links to such tools might be helpful.

```suggestion
To move the data from working Backstage instance hosted on a local PostgreSQL server to a production-ready PostgreSQL service (such as AWS RDB or Azure Database), you can use directly PostgreSQL utilities such as [pg_dump](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-pgdump.html) with [psql](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-psql.html) or [pgAdmin](https://www.pgadmin.org/) and move the data from each database one-by-one.
```

To simplify this process, we have a [**db_copy.sh**](../hack/db_copy.sh) script.

### Prerequisites

> - [**pg_dump**](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/backup-dump.html) and [**pgsql**](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-psql.html) client utilities installed on your local machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [**pg_dump**](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/backup-dump.html) and [**psql**](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-psql.html) client utilities installed on your local machine.
```

If you are sure migrations are not running you can release the lock manually by running 'knex migrate:unlock'                                                                                                     │
/opt/app-root/src/node_modules/@backstage/backend-app-api/dist/index.cjs.js:1793                                                                                                                                  │
          throw new errors.ForwardedError(                                                                                                                                                                        │
                ^                                                                                                                                                                                                 │
 MigrationLocked: Plugin 'auth' startup failed; caused by MigrationLocked: Migration table is already locked                                                                                                       │
````                       

> A way to make it work w/o knex utility is to delete the data from the **knex_migrations_lock** table for each problematic Backstage plugin's database (in the example above it is **'auth'** plugin, so corresponding database is **backstage_plugin_auth**):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A way to make it work without knex utility is to delete the data from the **knex_migrations_lock** table for each problematic Backstage plugin's database (in the example above it is **'auth'** plugin, so corresponding database is **backstage_plugin_auth**):
```

````
psql -h <to_host> -U <to_user> -d <database> -c "delete from knex_migrations_lock;"
````

> **NOTE:** in some DB the table called differently like: **backstage_backend_tasks__knex_migrations_lock** in the **backstage_plugin_search** database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** in some DB the table is called differently like: **backstage_backend_tasks__knex_migrations_lock** in the **backstage_plugin_search** database
```
